1
The black-footed albatross is a large seabird that has almost all black plumage.
Some adults show white undertail coverts, and all adults have white markings around the base of the beak and below the eye.
Its beak and feet are also all dark.

2
The Laysan albatross is a large seabird.
This small gull-like albatross has blackish-gray upperwing, mantle, back, upper rump, and tail, and its head, lower rump, and underparts are white.
It has a black smudge around the eye, and its underwing pattern varies between individuals, with some having narrower black margins and variable amounts of black in the underwing coverts.
Finally, the bill is pink with a dark tip.

3
The sooty albatross is a medium-sized albatross.
It is sooty-brown with darker shading on the sides of its head.
It has a white crescent above and behind its eye.
Its bill is black with an orange or yellow sulcus.
The tail of this albatross is wide diamond-shaped.

4
The groove-billed ani is a tropical bird with a long tail and a large, curved beak.
It is completely black, with a very long tail almost as long as its body.
It has a huge bill with lengthwise grooves running the length of the upper mandible.

5
The crested auklet is a small seabird known for colorful plumage with a forehead crest, a striking scent recalling citrus fruit, and a loud trumpet call.

6
The crested auklet have a reddish-orange and yellow tipped bill, yellowish white irises, and white auricular plumes from their eyes to their ears.
Their bodies, wings, and tails are primarily dark sooty grey, while their legs and feet are grey and claws black.
Crested auklets are known for their forehead crests, which is made of black forward-curving feathers.

7
The parakeet auklet is a small seabird with a short orange bill that is upturned to give the bird its curious fixed expression.
The bird's plumage is dark above and white below. with a single white plume projecting back from the eye.

8
The rhinoceros auklet is a medium-sized auk with a large, strong, orange/brown bill.
The plumage is dark on top and paler below.

9
Brewer's blackbird is a medium-sized blackbird.
Brewer's blackbirdhas a shorter bill and a shorter tail.

10
The red-winged blackbird is a passerine bird.
the male is all black with a red shoulder and yellow wing bar, while the female is a nondescript dark brown.
black adult male has distinctive red shoulder patches, or epaulets.
At rest, the male also shows a pale yellow wingbar.
The upper parts of the female are brown, while the lower parts are covered by an intense white and dark veining.

11
The rusty blackbird is a medium-sized blackbird.
Adults have a pointed bill and a pale yellow eye.
They have black plumage with faint green and purple gloss; the female is greyer.

12
The yellow-headed blackbird is a medium-sized blackbird with a yellow head.

13
The bobolink is a small New World blackbird.
Adult males are mostly black with creamy napes and white scapulars, lower backs, and rumps.
Adult females are mostly light brown with black streaks on the back and flanks, and dark stripes on the head; their wings and tails are darker.

14
The indigo bunting is a small seed-eating bird, around the size of a small sparrow..
the male is vibrant blue in the summer, with brightly colored  plumage during the breeding season to attract a mate.
the female is brown year-round.

15
The lazuli bunting is a North American songbird.

16
The painted bunting is a species of bird in the cardinal family, Cardinalidae.
Its colors, dark blue head, green back, red rump, and underparts, make it extremely easy to identify.
Painted bunting eggs are pale blue-white speckled or spotted with brown.

17
Cardinalidae is a family of New World-endemic passerine birds.
Members of this group are beloved for their brilliant red, yellow, or blue plumages seen in many of the breeding males in this family.
The head is medium to large in size, with a medium neck length.
The body of cardinalids range from small to medium,  Legs are also short to medium in length as well.
The wings are medium and pointed, cardinalids have nine visible primary feathers with the tenth primary feather being short in comparison.

18
The spotted catbird is a species of bowerbird, common throughout its large range.
Adults have a large, dusky colored head with a blackish cap and black ear-patch.
They have mostly bright-green upperparts with heavy olive chevrons and white streaking on the underbody.
They have slim white wing bars and a white-tipped green tail.
The eye is red and it has a stout, cream colored beak.
The legs and feet are dark to bluish grey.

19
The gray catbird , is a medium-sized perching bird of the mimid family.
The undertail coverts are rust-colored, and the remiges and rectrices are black, some with white borders.
The slim bill, the eyes, and the legs and feet are also blackish.

20
The yellow-breasted chat is a large songbird, the largest species of parulid.
These birds have olive upper parts with white bellies and bright-yellow throats and breasts.
Other signature features of yellow-breasted chats are their large, white eye rings, and blackish legs.

21
The eastern towhee is a large New World sparrow.
Adults have rufous sides, a white belly, and a long dark tail with white edges.
Males have a black head, upper body, and tail; these parts are brown in the female.

22
The chuck-will's-widow is a nocturnal bird, has a short bill and a long tail typical of the nightjars.
It has mottled brownish underparts, a buff throat, reddish-brown feathers lined with black, and brown and white patterning on head and chest.
Males have patches of white on their outer tail feathers.

23
Brandt's cormorant is a strictly marine bird of seabirds.
Its specific name is in reference to white plumes on its neck and back.

24
The red-faced cormorant is a bird species of the family Phalacrocoracidae.
The adult bird has glossy plumage that is a deep greenish blue in color, becoming purplish or bronze on the back and sides.
In breeding condition it has a double crest, and white plumes on the flanks, neck and rump, and the bare facial skin of the lores and around the eyes is a bright orange or red, giving the bird its name.
Its legs and feet are brownish black.

25
The pelagic cormorant is a small member of the cormorant family Phalacrocoracidae.
Adults in nonbreeding plumage are all-black with a metallic iridescence.
The long thin bill and the large feet with all-webbed toes are black throughout the year, while the patch of dark naked skin below the eye turns a vivid magenta in the breeding season.

26
The bronzed cowbird is a small icterid.
The male bronzed cowbird is with green-bronze, gloss-black plumage.
His eyes are red in breeding season and brown otherwise.
She is a dull black with a brown underbelly, and has brown eyes.

27
The shiny cowbird is a passerine bird.
Males are all black with a purple-blue iridescence.
The female is smaller, with dull brown plumage that is sometimes paler on the underparts.

28
The brown creeper is a small songbird.
Adults are brown on the upper parts with light spotting, with white underparts.
They have a long thin bill with a slight downward curve and a long stiff tail used for support as the bird creeps upwards.

29
The American crow is a large passerine bird.
Plumage is all black, with iridescent feathers.
he American crow is a large, distinctive bird with iridescent black feathers all over.
Its legs, feet and bill are also black.

30
The fish crow is a a small bird.
The fish crow is superficially similar to the American crow, but is smaller and has a silkier, smoother plumage by comparison.
The upperparts have a blue or blue-green sheen, while the underparts have a more greenish tint to the black.
The eyes are dark brown.
Fish crows tend to have more slender bills and feet.
There may also be a small sharp hook at the end of the upper bill.
Fish crows also appear as if they have shorter legs when walking.

31
The black-billed cuckoo is a New World specie.

32
The mangrove cuckoo is a species of cuckoo.
Adults have a long tail, brown above and black-and-white below, and a black curved bill with yellow on the lower mandible.
The head and upper parts are brown.
There is a yellow ring around the eye.
This species is on average the largest of North America's three Coccyzus cuckoos.

33
The yellow-billed cuckoo have a long tail, brown above and black-and-white below, and a black curved bill with yellow especially on the lower mandible.
The head and upper parts are brown and the underparts are white.
There is a yellow ring around the eye. It shows cinnamon on the wings in flight.

34
The gray-crowned rosy finch is medium-large with a comparatively long notched tail and wing.
Adults are brown on the back and breast and mainly pink on the rest of the underparts and the wings.
The forehead and throat are black; the back of the head is grey.
They have short black legs and a long forked tail.
There is some variability in the amount of grey on the head.

35
The purple finch have a short forked brown tail and brown wings.
Adult males are raspberry red on the head, breast, back and rump; their back is streaked.
Adult females have light brown upperparts and white underparts with dark brown streaks throughout.
they have a white line on the face above the eye.

36
The northern flicker is a medium-sized bird of the woodpecker family.
Adults are brown with black bars on the back and wings.
Males can be identified by a black or red moustachial stripe at the base of the beak.
The tail is dark on top, transitioning to a white rump which is conspicuous in flight.

37
The Acadian flycatcher is a small insect-eating bird of the tyrant flycatcher family.
Adults have olive upperparts, darker on the wings and tail, with whitish underparts; they have a white eye ring, white wing bars and a wide bill.
The breast is washed with olive.
The upper part of the bill is dark; the lower part is yellowish.

38
The great crested flycatcher is a large insect-eating bird of the tyrant flycatcher family.
All adults are brownish on the upperparts with yellow underparts; they have a long rusty brown tail and a bushy crest.
Their throat and breast are grey.

39
The least flycatcher is a small insect-eating bird.
Its plumage is dull olive-gray on its back and whitish on its belly, notably brighter than the other Empidonax birds.
The least flycatcher's wings are lined with two white bars, and white rings contour its eyes.
Its beak is short and the lower mandible is yellowish.

40
The olive-sided flycatcher is a small to medium sized passerine bird.
It is a very agile flyer and mainly consumes flying insects on flight.
It is qualified as small to medium-sized birds and are estimated to be smaller than American robins, but bigger than sparrows.
The olive-sided flycatcher can be identified by its olive-grey or grey-brownish plumage above and with a white mid-breast section and throat.
The olive tones on its back and wings are seen mainly in optimal light and when the feathers are freshly moulted.
The sides of the breast area are grey and make the bird look like it is wearing a vest.
It has a relatively long bill and long wings for its size.

41
The scissor-tailed flycatcher is a long-tailed bird of the genus Tyrannu.
Adult birds have pale gray heads and upper parts, light underparts, salmon-pink flanks and undertail coverts, and dark gray wings.
Axillars and patch on underwing coverts are red.
Their extremely long, forked tails, which are black on top and white on the underside, are characteristic and unmistakable.

42
The vermilion flycatcher is a small passerine bird.
The males have bright red crowns, chests, and underparts, with brownish wings and tails.
Males are bright red, with contrasting dark brown plumage.
Females are drab and have a peach-colored belly with a dark gray upperside.
The reddish color varies, but can be vermilion, scarlet, or orangish.
In males, the crown, chest, and underparts are red.
The lores (region in front of the eyes), nape, ear coverts, wings, upperparts and tail are all brown to blackish brown.
The female has a grayish crown, as well as grayish ear coverts, wings and tail.
The flight feathers and wing coverts are slightly paler gray, which create a barring effect.
The underparts start white but become light red moving downward.

43
The yellow-bellied flycatcher is a small insect-eating bird.
Adults have greenish upperparts and yellowish underparts (especially on the throat), with a dusky wash on the chest.
They have a white or yellow eye ring that lacks the teardrop projection that contrast strongly against the black wings, a broad, flat bill, and a relatively short tail when compared to other members of the genus.
The upper mandible of the bill is dark, while the lower mandible is orange-pink.

44
Frigatebirds are a family of seabirds.
All have predominantly black plumage, long, deeply forked tails and long hooked bills.
Females have white underbellies and males have a distinctive red gular pouch, which they inflate during the breeding season to attract females.
Their wings are long and pointed, the largest wing area to body weight ratio of any bird.
Frigatebirds are large slender mostly black-plumaged seabirds.
Frigatebirds have short necks and long, slender hooked bills. Their long narrow wings (male wingspan can reach 2.3 metres (7.5 ft)) taper to points.
Their tails are deeply forked, though this is not apparent unless the tail is fanned.
The tail and wings give them a distinctive 'W' silhouette in flight.
The legs and face are fully feathered.
 The totipalmate feet are short and weak, the webbing is reduced and part of each toe is free.

45
The northern fulmar  come in one of two color morphs: a light one, with white head and body and gray wings and tail, and a dark one, which is uniformly gray.
First, they have nasal passages that attach to the upper bill called naricorns.
The bills of Procellariiformes are also unique in that they are split into between seven and nine horny plates.One of these plates makes up the hooked portion of the upper bill, called the maxillary unguis.
This species is gray and white with a pale yellow, thick bill and bluish legs.

46
The gadwall is a dabbling duck.
The breeding male is patterned grey, with a black rear end, light chestnut wings, and a brilliant white speculum, obvious in flight or at rest.
In non-breeding (eclipse) plumage, the drake looks more like the female, but retains the male wing pattern, and is usually greyer above and has less orange on the bill.
The female is light brown, with plumage much like a female mallard.
It can be distinguished from that species by the dark orange-edged bill, smaller size, the white speculum, and white belly.

47
The American goldfinch is a small North American bird in the finch family.
the male is a vibrant yellow in the summer and an olive color during the winter,
the female is a dull yellow-brown shade which brightens only slightly during the summer.
The male displays brightly colored plumage during the breeding season to attract a mate.
The beak is small, conical, and pink for most of the year, but turns bright orange with the spring molt in both sexes.
During the winter molt it sheds all its feathers; in the spring, it sheds all but the wing and tail feathers, which are dark brown in the female and black in the male.
The female is mostly brown, lighter on the underside with a yellow bib.

48
The European goldfinch is a small passerine bird in the finch family.
The breeding male has a red face with black markings around the eyes, and a black-and-white head.
The back and flanks are buff or chestnut brown.
The black wings have a broad yellow bar. The tail is black and the rump is white.
The sexes are broadly similar, with a red face, black and white head, warm brown upper parts, white underparts with buff flanks and breast patches, and black and yellow wings.
Male European goldfinches can often be distinguished by a larger, darker red mask that extends just behind the eye.
The shoulder feathers are black, whereas they are brown on the female.
In females, the red face does not extend past the eye.
The ivory-coloured bill is long and pointed, and the tail is forked.

49
The boat-tailed grackle is a passerine bird.
Adult males have entirely iridescent black plumage, a long dark bill, a pale yellowish or brown iris, and a long keel-shaped tail.
She is also distinguished by her shorter tail and tawny-brown coloration, which covers the body apart from the darker wings and tail.

50
The black-necked grebe is a member of the grebe family of water birds.
Its breeding plumage features a distinctive ochre-coloured plumage which extends behind its eye and over its ear coverts.
The rest of the upper parts, including the head, neck, and breast, are coloured black to blackish brown.
The flanks are tawny rufous to maroon-chestnut, and the abdomen is white.
 When in its non-breeding plumage, this bird has greyish-black upper parts, including the top of the head and a vertical stripe on the back of the neck.
The rest of the body is a white or whitish colour.

51
The horned grebe is a relatively small waterbird in the family Podicipedidae.
The species got its name from large patches of yellowish feathers located behind the eyes, called \"horns\".
orned grebes can be easily recognised by its red-and-black alternate (breeding) plumage, its black-and-white basic (non-breeding) plumage, and its characteristic \"horns\".
It has a moderately long neck, flat forehead and a rear crown of black feathers.
Its beak is straight and pointy with a white tip.
The alternate (breeding) plumage of the horned grebe has bright erectable \"horns\", black fan-shaped cheek feathers and an overall red-and-black colour.
The neck, flanks, lores and upper-chest are chestnut brown, while the crown and back are black.
The belly is a dull white.
The basic (non-breeding) plumage is overall black and white.
The neck, chest and cheeks are white, while the back and crown are a dull black-grey.

52
The pied-billed grebe are small, stocky, and short-necked.
They are mainly brown, with a darker crown and back.
Their brown color serves as camouflage in the marshes they live in.
Their undertail is white and they have a short, blunt chicken-like bill that is a light grey color, which in summer is encircled by a broad black band (hence the name).
species is much smaller and has a thinner bill.

53
The western grebe is a species in the grebe family of water birds.
The western grebe is the largest North American grebe.
It is black-and-white, with a long, slender, swan-like neck and red eyes.
The western grebe has black around the eyes and a straight greenish-yellow bill.

54
The blue grosbeak , is a medium-sized North American passerine bird in the cardinal family.
The male is blue with two brown wing bars.
The female is mainly brown with scattered blue feathers on the upperparts and two brown wing bars.
The male blue grosbeak is deep blue, with both black and brown on its wings.
The female is mostly brown.
Both sexes are distinguished by their large, deep bill and double wing bars.

55
The evening grosbeak is a passerine bird in the finch family Fringillidae.
The evening grosbeak is similar in appearance to the Eurasian hawfinch, both being bulky, heavily built finches with large bills and short tails.
The adult has a short black tail, black wings and a large pale bill.
The adult male has a bright yellow forehead and body; its head is brown and there is a large white patch in the wing.
The adult female is mainly olive-brown, greyer on the underparts and with white patches in the wings.

56
The pine grosbeak is a large member of the true finch family.
This species is one of the largest species in the true finch family.
Adults have a long forked black tail, black wings with white wing bars and a large bill.
Adult males have a rose-red head, back and rump, They also possess black wings and tail, with a conical beak.
Adult females are olive-yellow on the head and rump and grey on the back and underparts.

57
The rose-breasted grosbeak is a large, seed-eating grosbeak in the cardinal family.
Males have black heads, wings, backs, and tails, and a bright rose colored patch on their white breast.
At all ages and in both sexes, the beak is dusky horn-colored, and the feet and eyes are dark.
The adult male in breeding plumage has a black head, wings, back, and tail, and a bright rose-red patch on its breast; the wings have two white patches and rose-red linings.
Males in nonbreeding plumage have largely white underparts, supercilium, and cheeks.
The upperside feathers have brown fringes, and most wing feathers white ones, giving a scaly appearance.
The adult female has dark grey-brown upperparts . darker on wings and tail .
a white supercilium, a buff stripe along the top of the head, and black-streaked white underparts, which except in the center of the belly have a buff tinge.
The wing linings are yellowish, and on the upperwing are two white patches like in the summer male.

58
The pigeon guillemot is a species of bird in the auk family, Alcidae.
all subspecies, when in breeding plumage, are dark brown with a black iridescent sheen and a distinctive wing patch broken by a brown-black wedge.
Its non-breeding plumage has mottled grey and black upperparts and white underparts.
The long bill is black, as are the claws.
The legs, feet, and inside of the mouth are red.
It closely resembles the black guillemot, which is slightly smaller and lacks the dark wing wedge present in the pigeon guillemot.
Combined, the two form a superspecies.

59
The California gull is a medium-sized gull.
dults are similar in appearance to the herring gull, but have a smaller yellow bill with a black ring, yellow legs, brown eyes and a more rounded head.
The body is mainly white with grey back and upper wings.
They have black primaries with white tips.

60
The glaucous-winged gull is a large, white-headed gull.
The specific glaucescens is denoting the grey color of its wings.
It has a white head, neck, breast, and belly, a white tail.
The silver-gray wings and back form the mantle.
The primary flight feathers (wingtips) are grey, usually the same shade as the mantle.
Its legs are pink and the beak is yellow with a red subterminal spot.
The irises are typically dark, and surrounded by pink orbital skin.

61
Heermann's gull  have a medium gray body, blackish-gray wings and tail with white edges, and a red bill with a black tip.
The head is dusky gray in non-breeding plumage and white in breeding plumage.
it is the only white-headed, gray-bodied gull found on the west coast of North America.

62
Larus is a large genus of gulls.
They are in general medium to large birds, typically grey or white, often with black markings on their heads or wings.
They have stout, longish bills and webbed feet.

63
The ivory gull is a small gull.
It has a different, more pigeon-like shape than the Larus gulls, but the adult has completely white plumage, lacking the grey back of other gulls.
The thick bill is blue with a yellow tip, and the legs are black.
The bill is tipped with red, and the eyes have a fleshy, bright red eye-ring in the breeding season.
Its flight call cry is a harsh, tern-like keeeer.

64
The ring-billed gull is a medium-sized gull.

65
The slaty-backed gull is a large, white-headed gull.
It is similar in appearance to the western gull and the glaucous-winged gull.
It has a white head, belly, and tail with a dark slaty-gray back and wings with a broad white trailing edge.
The wings and back are slightly darker.
there are white spots called mirrors.
The inner webs to primaries are pale grey, and the mid-primaries have long grey tongues tipped with large white crescents, forming a \"string of pearls\" pattern connecting to the broad white trailing edge of the secondaries.
Its eyes are yellow surrounded by purple to deep pink orbital skin.
The legs are pink and short when compared with those of similar-looking gulls, and the body appears more stout with a \"pot-bellied\" appearance.
The bill is yellow with orange-red subterminal spot.

66
The western gull is a large white-headed gull.
The western gull has a white head and body, and upperparts or mantle is dark grey.
It has a large and bulbous-tipped yellow bill with a red subterminal spot.

67
Anna's hummingbird is a medium-sized bird species.
They have an iridescent bronze-green back, a pale grey chest and belly, and green flanks.
Their bills are long, straight, and slender.
The adult male has an iridescent crimson-red, derived from magenta, to a reddish-pink crown and gorget, which can look dull brown or gray without direct sunlight, and a dark, slightly forked tail.
Females also have iridescent red gorgets.

68
The ruby-throated hummingbird are metallic green above and grayish white below, with near-black wings.
Their bill is long, straight, and very slender.
The toes and feet of this species are quite small.
The adult male has a gorget (throat patch) of iridescent ruby red bordered narrowly with velvety black on the upper margin and a forked black tail with a faint violet sheen.
The red iridescence is highly directional and appears dull black from many angles.
The female has a notched tail with outer feathers banded in green, black, and white and a white throat that may be plain or lightly marked with dusky streaks or stipples.

69
The rufous hummingbird is a small hummingbird.
he adult male has a white breast, rufous face, flanks and tail and an iridescent orange-red throat patch or gorget.
The female has green, white, some iridescent orange feathers in the center of the throat, and a dark tail with white tips and rufous base.

70
The Mexican violetear is a medium-sized, metallic green hummingbird species.
Tts bill is black and mostly straight with only a slight downward curve .
It is shining green above with a glittering violet ear-patch on the sides of its neck.
Its throat and chest are a glittering green with a shining green belly.
The tail is a metallic blue-green with more bronzy central feathers and a prominent black subterminal band.

71
The long-tailed skua is a seabird in the skua family.
An adult, with grey back, dark primary wing feathers without a white \"flash\", black cap and very long tail.
They are slimmer, longer-winged and more tern-like than that species, but show the same wide range of plumage variation.
However, they are usually colder toned than Arctic, with greyer shades, rather than brown.

72
The pomarine jaeger is a seabird in the skua family.
This is a large skua.
They are much bulkier, broader-winged and less falcon-like than the parasitic jaeger, but show the same wide range of plumage variation.
All morphs have the white wing flash, which appears as a diagnostic double flash on the underwing.

73
The blue jay is a passerine bird.
Its coloration is predominantly blue, with a white chest and underparts, and a blue crest;
it has a black, U-shaped collar around its neck and a black border behind the crest.
There is a pronounced crest on the head, a crown of feathers, which may be raised or lowered according to the bird's mood.
Its plumage is lavender-blue to mid-blue in the crest, back, wings, and tail, and its face is white.
The underside is off-white and the neck is collared with black which extends to the sides of the head.
The wing primaries and tail are strongly barred with black, sky-blue, and white.
The bill, legs, and eyes are all black.

74
The Florida scrub jay has a strong black bill, blue head and nape without a crest, a whitish forehead and supercilium, blue bib, blue wings, grayish underparts, gray back, long blue tail, black legs and feet.

75
The green jay usually have blue and black heads, green wings and mantle, bluish-green tails, black bills, yellow or brown eye rings, and dark legs.
They have feathers of yellowish-white with blue tips on the top of the head, cheeks and nape, though some taxa have more blue than others.
The breast and underparts range from bright yellow in the south to pale green.
The upper parts are rich green.
It has large nasal bristles that form a distinct tuft in some subspecies, but are less developed in others.
The color of the iris ranges from dark brownish to bright yellow depending on the subspecies.

76
The dark-eyed junco generally have gray heads, necks, and breasts, gray or brown backs and wings, and a white belly.
The white outer tail feathers flash distinctively in flight and while hopping on the ground.
The bill is usually pale pinkish.

77
The tropical kingbird is a large tyrant flycatcher.
The head is pale gray, with a darker eye mask, an orange crown stripe, and a heavy gray bill.
The back is grayish-green, and the wing and forked tail are brown.
The throat is pale gray, becoming olive on the breast, with the rest of the underparts being yellow.

78
The gray kingbird also known as pitirre, petchary, or white-breasted kingbird is a passerine bird.
The adult gray kingbird is an average-sized kingbird.
The upperparts are gray, with brownish wings and tail, and the underparts are white with a gray tinge to the chest.
The head has a concealed yellow crown stripe, and a dusky mask through the eyes.
The dark bill is heavier than that of the related, slightly smaller, tropical kingbird.

79
The belted kingfisher is a large, conspicuous water kingfisher.
The belted kingfisher is a stocky, medium-sized bird.
This species has a large head with a shaggy crest. Its long, heavy bill is black with a grey base.
Both sexes have a slate blue head, large white collar, a large blue band on the breast, and white underparts.
The back and wings are slate blue with black feather tips with little white dots.
The female features a rufous band across the upper belly that extends down the flanks

80
The green kingfisher is a small kingfisher.
It has the typical kingfisher shape, with a short tail and long bill.
It is oily green above, with white markings on the wings and tail, and a white collar around the neck.
Males have white underparts apart from a broad chestnut breast band and some green spotting on the flanks.
Females have buff-white underparts with two green chest bands, the lower of which links to the green spotting along the sides of the belly.

81
The pied kingfisher is a species of water kingfisher.
Its black and white plumage and crest make it distinctive.
Males have a double band across the breast, while females have a single gorget that is often broken in the middle.
This is a medium-sized kingfisher with a white with a black mask, a white supercilium and black breast bands.
The crest is neat and the upperparts are barred in black.

82
The ringed kingfisher is a large kingfisher bird.
Ringed kingfishers have a dark-brown iris that is constant amongst all age groups.
They possess a straight bill that is longer than its head, along with a curved culmen and tomial serrations.
The lower mandible appears to have some yellowish colorations.
They possess syndactil feet with olive-green or yellowish toes and black claws.
A large crest appears to be between the base of the bill and neck.

83
The white-throated kingfisher is a tree kingfisher.
This is a large kingfisher.
The adult has a bright blue back, wings and tail.
Its head, shoulders, flanks and lower belly are chestnut, and the throat and breast are white.
The large bill and legs are bright red.
The flight of the white-throated kingfisher is rapid and direct, the short rounded wings whirring.
In flight, large white patches are visible on the blue and black wings.

84
The red-legged kittiwake is a seabird species.
it is very similar to its better known relative, the black-legged kittiwake.
other differences include the shorter bill, larger eyes, a larger, rounder head and darker grey wings.

85
The horned lark or shore larkis a species of lark.
Unlike most other larks, this is a distinctive-looking species on the ground, mainly brown-grey above and pale below, with a striking black and yellow face pattern.
Except for the central feathers, the tail is mostly black, contrasting with the paler body.
The summer male has black \"horns\", which give this species its American name.
North America has a number of races distinguished by the face pattern and back colour of males, especially in summer.

86
The Pacific loon is a medium-sized member of the loon, or diver, family.
They have a grey head, black throat, white underparts and chequered black-and-white mantle.
The black throat has purple reflections.
Non-breeding plumage is drabber with the chin and foreneck white.
Its bill is grey or whitish and dagger-shaped.
In all plumages, lack of a white flank patch distinguishes this species from the otherwise very similar black-throated loon.

87
The mallard or wild duck is a dabbling duck.
Males have purple patches on their wings, while the females (hens or ducks) have mainly brown-speckled plumage.
Both sexes have an area of white-bordered black or iridescent blue feathers called a speculum on their wings.
males especially tend to have blue speculum feathers.

88
The western meadowlark is a medium-sized icterid bird.
Western meadowlark adults have yellow underparts with a black \"V\" on the breast and white flanks streaked with black.
Their upper parts are mostly brown, but also have black streaks.
These birds have long, pointed bills and their heads are striped with light brown and black bands.

89
The hooded merganser is a species of merganser.
both sexes have crests that they can raise or lower, and the breeding plumage of the male is handsomely patterned and coloured..
The adult female has a greyish-brown body, with a narrow white patch over the lower breast and belly.
She has a light reddish-brown crest extending from the back of the head.
In breeding plumage the dorsal areas and the head, neck and breast of the mature male are mainly black with white markings.
there are large white patches on either side of the crest.
His lower flanks are a rich reddish-brown or chestnut in colour, and the breast and undersides are more or less white, extending into white stripes across the crop and breast.
In both sexes there are narrow white stripes along the tertial wing feathers.

90
The adult red-breasted merganser has a spiky crest and long thin red bill with serrated edges.
The male has a dark head with a green sheen, a white neck with a rusty breast, a black back, and white underparts.
Adult females have a rusty head and a grayish body.

91
Mockingbirds are a group of New World passerine birds.

92
The nighthawk are medium-sized birds with long wings, short legs, and very short bills.
Nighthawks have small feet, of little use for walking, and long pointed wings.
Their soft plumage is cryptically coloured to resemble bark or leaves.

93
Clark's nutcracker is a passerine bird in the family Corvidae.
Most of its body has feathers that are ashy-grey and loose in texture.
The wings and tail are black and white.
The central tail feathers are black and the outer ones white.
The bill, legs and feet are also black.
he bill is long, stout, and cone-shaped.

94
The white-breasted nuthatch is a medium-sized nuthatch.
upperparts are light blue-gray, with a black crown and nape in males, while females have a dark gray crown.
The underparts are whitish, with a reddish tinge on the lower abdomen.
The adult male has pale blue-gray upperparts, a glossy black cap (crown of the head), and a black band on the upper back.
The wing coverts and flight feathers are very dark gray with paler fringes, and the closed wing is pale gray and black, with a thin white wing bar.
The face and the underparts are white.
The outer tail feathers are black with broad diagonal white bands across the outer three feathers, a feature readily visible in flight.
The female has, on average, a narrower black back band, slightly duller upperparts and buffer underparts than the male.
Her cap may be gray, but many females have black caps and cannot be reliably distinguished from the male in the field.

95
The Baltimore oriole is a small icterid blackbird.
The Baltimore Oriole is a medium-sized bird, with a sturdy body, longish tail, fairly long legs, and a thick pointed bill.
Their build is typical of icterids, as they have a sturdy body, a longish tail, fairly long legs and a thick, pointed bill.
Adults always have white bars on the wings.
The adult male is orange on the underparts shoulder patch and rump, with some birds appearing a very deep flaming orange and others appearing yellowish-orange.
All of the rest of the male's plumage is black.
The adult female is yellow-brown on the upper parts with darker wings, and dull orange-yellow on the breast and belly.

96
The hooded oriole is a medium-sized New World oriole.
The male of this species ranges in color from a bright orange to a paler yellow, with a black back, face, tail and bib, with the wing containing two white bars.
The female is more of an olive color with some yellow accents.
Adults have a curved bill which is completely black and white wing bars.
The adult male has a deep yellowish orange head with black on the face and throat.
they are black on the back, wings and tail, orange on the underparts.
The adult female is olive-green on the upper parts, yellowish on the breast and belly.

97
The orchard oriole is the smallest species of icterid.
The bill is pointed and black with some blue-gray at the base of the lower mandible.
The adult male of the nominate subspecies has chestnut on the underparts, shoulder, and rump, with the rest of the plumage black.
The adult female and the juvenile of both subspecies have olive-green on the upper parts and yellowish on the breast and belly.
All adults have pointed bills and white wing bars.

98
The Scott's oriole is a medium-sized icterid.

99
The ovenbird is a small songbird.
They have olive-brown upperparts and white underparts heavily streaked with black; the flanks have an olive hue.
A white ring surrounds the eyes, and a black stripe runs below the cheek.
They have a line of orange feathers with olive-green tips running along the top of their head, bordered on each side with blackish-brown.
The orange feathers can be erected to form a small crest.
The eyes and the upper part of the thin pointed beak are dark, while the lower beak is horn-colored and the legs and feet are pinkish.
Most conspicuously, the olive-green tips of the crown feathers, which are hardly visible in adult birds, are far larger in extent in immatures and cover the orange crown-stripe almost or completely.

100
The brown pelican is a bird of the pelican family.
The nominate subspecies in its breeding plumage has a white head with a yellowish wash on the crown.
The nape and neck are dark maroon brown.
The upper sides of the neck have white lines along the base of the gular pouch, and the lower fore neck has a pale yellowish patch.
The male and female are similar, but the female is slightly smaller.
he nonbreeding adult has a white head and neck.
The pink skin around the eyes becomes dull and gray in the nonbreeding season.
It lacks any red hue, and the pouch is strongly olivaceous ochre-tinged and the legs are olivaceous gray to blackish-gray.

101
The great white pelican is a bird in the pelican family.
The male has a downward bend in the neck and the female has a shorter, straighter beak.
The plumage is predominantly white except on remiges, with a faint pink tinge on the neck and a yellowish base on the foreneck.
The primary feathers are black, with white shafts at the bases, occasionally with paler tips and narrow fringes.
The secondary feathers are also black, but with a whitish fringe.
The upperwing coverts, underwing coverts, and tertials are white.
It has fleshy-yellow legs and pointed forehead-feathers where meeting the culmen.
The bill is mostly bluish grey, with a red tip, reddish maxilla edges, and a cream-yellow to yolk-yellow gular pouch.
The white plumage becomes tinged-pink with a yellow patch on the breast, and the body is tinged yellowish-rosy.
It also has a short, shaggy crest on the nape.
The white covert feathers contrast with the solid black primary and secondary feathers.
The legs are yellow-flesh to pinkish orange.

102
The western wood pewee is a small tyrant flycatcher.
Adults are gray-olive on the upperparts with light underparts, washed with olive on the breast.
They have two wing bars and a dark bill with yellow at the base of the lower mandible.

103
The genus Sayornis is a small group of medium-sized insect-eating birds, known as phoebes, in the tyrant flycatcher family Tyrannidae.

104
The buff-bellied pipit is a small songbird.
The rubescens subspecies (or American pipit) has lightly streaked grey-brown upperparts and is diffusely streaked below on the buff breast and flanks.
The belly is whitish, the bill and legs are dark.
The japonicus subspecies (or Japanese pipit) is darker above and has bolder black streaking on its whiter underparts; its legs have a reddish hue. The call is a squeaky sip.

105
The eastern whip-poor-will is a medium-sized bird within the nightjar family, Caprimulgidae.
Adults have mottled plumage: the upperparts are grey, black and brown; the lower parts are grey and black.
They have a very short bill and a black throat.
Males have a white patch below the throat and white tips on the outer tail feathers.
in the female, these parts are light brown.

106
The horned puffin is an auk with a small fleshy black \"horn\" extending upwards from the eye, from which the animal derives its common name \u2014 the horned puffin.
A dark eyestripe extends backwards from the eye towards the occiput.
The cheeks are white, with a yellow wattle at the base of the bill. The legs and feet are orange.
The horned puffin's bill, which is larger than those of other puffin species, is red at the tip and yellow at the base.
The horned puffin chick has smoky-gray cheeks and a fine, black triangular-shaped beak.
The feet are pinkish or greyish.

107
The common raven is a large all-black passerine bird.
The bill is large and slightly curved.
It has a longish, strongly graduated tail, and mostly black iridescent plumage, and a dark brown iris.
The throat feathers are elongated and pointed and the bases of the neck feathers are pale brownish-grey.
The legs and feet are good-sized.
the common raven differs from its cousins, the crows, by having a larger and heavier black beak, shaggy feathers around the throat and above the beak, and a wedge-shaped tail.

108
The white-necked raven is somewhat smaller than the common raven.
The white-necked raven has a much shorter tail than the common raven, as well as a deeper bill with a white tip that is almost as strongly arched as that of the thick-billed raven.
Though predominantly black, the throat, breast and neck show a faint purple gloss.
There is a large patch of white feathers on the nape of the neck.

109
he American redstart is a New World warbler.
The American redstart is a smallish warbler.
Its length is boosted by a relatively long tail and it is one of the lightest birds in its family.
The breeding males are jet black above apart from large orange-red patches on their wings and tails.
Their breast sides are also orange, with the rest of their underparts white.
In their other plumages, American redstarts display green in their upperparts, along with black central tails and grey heads.
The orange patches of the breeding males are replaced by yellow in the plumages of the females and young birds.

110
The roadrunners are two species of fast-running ground cuckoos with long tails and crests.
The roadrunner is a large, slender, black-brown and white-streaked ground bird with a distinctive head crest.
It has long legs, strong feet, and an oversized dark bill.
The tail is broad with white tips on the three outer tail feathers.
The bird has a bare patch of skin behind each eye; this patch is shaded blue anterior to red posterior.
The lesser roadrunner is slightly smaller, not as streaky, and has a smaller bill.
Both the lesser roadrunner and the greater roadrunner leave behind very distinct \"X\" track marks appearing as if they are travelling in both directions.
Roadrunners and other members of the cuckoo family have zygodactyl feet.

111
The loggerhead shrike is a passerine bird.
The loggerhead shrike is a medium-sized passerine.
\"Loggerhead\" refers to the relatively large size of the head as compared to the rest of the body.

112
The great grey shrike is a large songbird species in the shrike family .

113
Baird's sparrow can be identified as a small brown streaked sparrow.
Their faces are a yellow-brown color featuring subtle black markings.
These birds have a narrow band of brown streaks on their chests.
This species can be distinguished from others by its unique broad ochre central crown stripe.

114
The black-throated sparrow is pale gray above, with a distinctive black and white head pattern.

115
Brewer's sparrow is a small, slim species of American sparrow.
Adults have grey-brown backs and speckled brown crowns, both with dark streaks, and a pale eye-ring.
Their wings are brown with light wing bars and the underparts are pale grey.
Their bill is pale with a dark tip and they have a long notched tail.

116
The chipping sparrow is a species of New World sparrow.
Throughout the year, adults are gray below and an orangish-rust color above.
Adults in alternate (breeding) plumage have a reddish cap, a nearly white supercilium, and a black trans-ocular line (running through the eye).
Adults in basic (nonbreeding) plumage are less prominently marked, with a brownish cap, a dusky eyebrow, and a dark eye-line.

117
The clay-colored sparrow is a small New World sparrow.
Adults have light brown upperparts and pale underparts, with darker streaks on the back.
They have a pale crown stripe on a dark brown crown, a white line over the eyes, a dark line through the eyes, a light brown cheek patch and brown wings with wing bars.
The short bill is pale with a dark tip and the back of the neck is grey; they have a long tail.

118
The house sparrow is a bird of the sparrow family Passeridae.
Females and young birds are coloured pale brown and grey, and males have brighter black, white, and brown markings.
The plumage of the house sparrow is mostly different shades of grey and brown.
The female is mostly buffish above and below, while the male has boldly coloured head markings, a reddish back, and grey underparts.
The male has a dark grey crown from the top of its bill to its back, and chestnut brown flanking its crown on the sides of its head.
It has black around its bill, on its throat, and on the spaces between its bill and eyes (lores).
It has a small white stripe between the lores and crown and small white spots immediately behind the eyes (postoculars), with black patches below and above them.
The underparts are pale grey or white, as are the cheeks, ear coverts, and stripes at the base of the head.
The upper back and mantle are a warm brown, with broad black streaks, while the lower back, rump and upper tail coverts are greyish brown.

119
The field sparrow is a small New World sparrow in the family Passerellidae.
The head is grey with a rust-coloured crown, white eye-ring and pink bill.
The upper parts are brown streaked with black and buff, the breast is buff, the belly is white and the tail is forked.
Adults have brown upperparts, a buffy breast, a white belly, two whitish wing bars and a dark-brown forked tail.
They have a grey face, a rusty crown, a white eye ring and a pink bill.
They have rusty markings behind the eye.
There are grey and rufous colour variants.

120
The fox sparrow is a large New World sparrow.
Adults are among the largest sparrows, heavily spotted and streaked underneath.
All feature a messy central breast spot though it is less noticeable on the thick billed and slate-colored varieties.

121
The grasshopper sparrow is a small New World sparrow.
Adults have upperparts streaked with brown, grey, black and white; they have a light brown breast, a white belly and a short brown tail.
Their face is light brown with an eye ring and a dark brown crown with a central narrow light stripe.
There are regional variations in the appearance of this bird.

122
Harris's sparrow is a large sparrow.
Breeding plumage birds have conspicuous pink bills and black on the crown, face, throat and upper breast, contrasting with grey on the sides of the head and neck.
The back is brown, overlaid with heavy black streaking.
There are two white wing bars. Breeding birds have white lower underparts with some black mottling on flanks.
Non-breeding adults are more buffy than grey and brown, with reduced or absent black markings and often have whitish scalloping on the head and throat.
Immatures have less black than all adult plumages, normally marked with a white chin and throat, a black malar stripe and a broad smudgy black breast-band.

123
Henslow's sparrow is a passerine bird in the family Passerellidae.
Adults have streaked brown upperparts with a light brown breast with streaks, a white belly and a white throat.
hey have a pale stripe on the crown with a dark stripe on each side, an olive face and neck, rust-coloured wings and a short dark forked tail.

124
LeConte's sparrow is one of the smallest New World sparrow species in North America.
LeConte's sparrow is a small sparrow with a relatively large head, short grey bill and short pointed tail.
It has a buffy yellow-orange face with grey cheeks, and a dark brown crown with a white central stripe.
The nape of the neck is lilac grey with chestnut streaks, and the back is streaked with brown and beige.
Its belly is off white, while the breast and sides are a buffy orange-yellow with dark brown streaks.
The feet and legs are a brownish-pink colour.

125
Lincoln's sparrow is a small sparrow native to North America.
Adults have dark-streaked olive-brown upperparts and a light brown breast with fine streaks, a white belly, and a white throat.
They have a brown cap with a grey stripe in the middle, olive-brown wings, and a narrow tail.
Their face is grey with brown cheeks, a buffy mustache, and a brown line through the eye with a narrow eye ring.

126
Nelson's sparrow is a small New World sparrow.
Formerly, this bird and the saltmarsh sparrow were considered to be a single species, the sharp-tailed sparrow.
Adults have brownish upperparts with gray on the crown and nape, a cream-colored breast with light or indistinct streaking and a white throat and belly;
they have an orange face with gray cheeks and a short pointed tail.

127
The Savannah sparrow is a small New World sparrow.
This species has a typically sparrow-like dark-streaked brown back, and whitish underparts with brown or blackish breast and flank streaking.
It has whitish crown and supercilium stripes, sometimes with some yellow (more often near the beak).
The cheeks are brown and the throat white.
The flight feathers are blackish-brown with light brown or white border.
The eyes are dark.
The feet and legs are horn-colored, as is the lower part of the bill, with the upper part being dark grey.

128
The seaside sparrow is an American sparrow.
Adults have brownish upperparts with gray on the crown and nape, and a grayish-buff-colored breast with dark streaks;
they have a dark face with gray cheeks, a white throat, and a short, pointed tail. Birds show a small yellow streak just above the eye.

129
The song sparrow is a medium-sized New World sparrow.
Adult song sparrows have brown upperparts with dark streaks on the back and are white underneath with dark streaking and a dark brown spot in the middle of the breast.
They have a brown cap and a long brown rounded tail.
Their face is gray with a brown streak through each eye.

130
The Eurasian tree sparrow is a passerine bird in the sparrow family with a rich chestnut crown and nape, and a black patch on each pure white cheek.
The adult's crown and nape are rich chestnut, and there is a kidney-shaped black ear patch on each pure white cheek;
the chin, throat, and the area between the bill and throat are black.
The upperparts are light brown, streaked with black, and the brown wings have two distinct narrow white bars.
The legs are pale brown, and the bill is lead-blue in summer, becoming almost black in winter.

131
The vesper sparrow is a medium-sized New World sparrow.
Adults have light brown upper-parts and light under-parts, both with darker streaking.
The first is the presence of a small, white ring surrounding the eyes.
The second is the flash of white tail feathers that occurs during flight.
The third is the presence of a chestnut patch on the shoulder.

132
The white-crowned sparrow is a species of passerine bird native to North America.
A medium-sized member of the New World sparrow family, this species is marked by a grey face and black and white streaking on the upper head.
Adults have black and white stripes on their head, a gray face, brown streaked upper parts and a long tail.
The wings are brown with bars and the underparts are gray.
Their bill is pink or yellow.

133
The white-throated sparrow is a passerine bird of the New World sparrow family Passerellidae.
They are similar in appearance to the white-crowned sparrow, but with white throat markings and yellow lores.
On the white-striped form the crown is black with a white central stripe.
The supercilium is white as well. The auriculars are gray with the upper edge forming a black eye line.
On the tan form, the crown is dark brown with a tan central stripe. The supercilium is tan as well.
The auriculars are gray/light brown with the upper edge forming a brown eye line.
Both variations feature dark eyes, a white throat, yellow lores and gray bill.
There is variation and some individuals may show dark lateral stripes of each side of the throat.

134
The Cape starling or red-shouldered glossy-starling is a species of starling in the family Sturnidae.
Its ear coverts and flanks are not particularly contrasting as with the blue-eared starlings.
The plumage of an adult bird is a fairly uniform bright, glossy colour.
The head is blue with darker ear coverts and the upper parts of the body are greenish-blue.

135
The sand martin is a migratory passerine bird in the swallow family.
The sand martin is brown above, white below with a narrow brown band on the breast;
the bill is black, the legs brown.
Its brown back, white throat, small size and quick jerky flight separate it at once from similar swallows, such as the common house martin , the American cliff swallow  or other species of Riparia.

136
The barn swallow is a distinctive passerine bird with blue upperparts and a long, deeply forked tail.
It has steel blue upperparts and a rufous forehead, chin and throat, which are separated from the off-white underparts by a broad dark blue breast band.
The outer tail feathers are elongated, giving the distinctive deeply forked \"swallow tail\".
There is a line of white spots across the outer end of the upper tail.
The distinctive combination of a red face and blue breast band renders the adult barn swallow easy to distinguish.

137
The cliff swallow a member of the passerine bird family Hirundinidae.
they have short legs and small bills with relatively long pointed wings.
Adult cliff swallows have an overall dark brownish plumage covering both their back and wings, and they have a characteristic white forehead, rich red-coloured cheeks with a dark throat, basic white underparts and a buffy-coloured rump.
In good lighting conditions, their crowns and mantle feathers are iridescent.

138
The tree swallow is black, the eyes dark brown, and the legs and feet pale brown.
The male has mostly glossy blue-green upperparts, the wings and tail being blackish.
The underparts and the cheek patch are white, although the underwing coverts are grey-brown.
The bill is black, the eyes dark brown, and the legs and feet pale brown.
The female is duller in colour than the male, and sometimes has a brown forehead.

139
Adult female Scarlet Tanager is a medium-sized American songbird.
The species' plumage and vocalizations are similar to other members of the cardinal family.
Adults of both sexes have pale, horn-colored, fairly stout, and smooth-textured bills.
Adult males are crimson-red with black wings and tail.
The male's coloration is intense and deeply red, similar but deeper in shade than the males of two occasionally co-existing relatives, the northern cardinal and the summer tanager, both which lack black wings.
Females are yellowish on the underparts and olive on top, with yellow-olive-toned wings and tail.
The adult male's winter plumage is similar to the female's, but the wings and tail remain darker.

140
Summer tanager is a medium-sized American songbird.
Adults have stout pointed bills.
Adult males are rose red and similar in appearance to the hepatic tanager, although the latter has a dark bill.
females are orangish on the underparts and olive on top, with olive-brown wings and tail.

141
The Arctic tern is a tern in the family Laridae.
Arctic terns are medium-sized birds.
They are mainly grey and white plumaged, with a red/orange beak and feet, white forehead, a black nape and crown (streaked white), and white cheeks.
The upper wing is grey with a white leading edge, and the collar is completely white, as is the rump.
The deeply forked tail is whitish, with grey outer webs.

142
The black tern is a small tern.
it has predominantly dark plumage.
In some lights it can appear blue in the breeding season.
They have short dark legs and a short, weak-looking black bill.
The bill is long, slender, and looks slightly decurved.
They have a dark grey back, with a white forewing, black head, neck and belly, black or blackish-brown cap and a light brownish-grey, 'square' tail.
The face is white.
There is a big dark triangular patch in front of the eye, and a broadish white collar in juveniles.
There are greyish-brown smudges on the ides of the white breast, a downwards extension of the plumage of the upperparts.
These marks vary in size and are not conspicuous.

143
The Caspian tern is a species of tern.
It is the world's largest tern.
Adult birds have black legs, and a long thick red-orange bill with a small black tip.
They have a white head with a black cap and white neck, belly, and tail.
The upper wings and back are pale grey; the underwings are pale with dark primary feathers.

144
The common tern is a seabird in the family Laridae.
Breeding adults have light grey upperparts, white to very light grey underparts, a black cap, orange-red legs, and a narrow pointed bill.
the bill may be mostly red with a black tip or all black.
Breeding adults have pale grey upperparts, very pale grey underparts, a black cap, orange-red legs, and a narrow pointed bill that can be mostly red with a black tip, or all black, depending on the subspecies.
The common tern's upper wings are pale grey, but as the summer wears on, the dark feather shafts of the outer flight feathers become exposed, and a grey wedge appears on the wings.
The rump and tail are white, and on a standing bird the long tail extends no further than the folded wingtips, unlike the Arctic and roseate terns in which the tail protrudes beyond the wings.
In non-breeding adults, the forehead and underparts become white, the bill is all black or black with a red base, and the legs are dark red or black.
The upper wings have an obvious dark area at the front edge of the wing, the carpal bar.

145
The elegant tern is a tern in the family Laridae.
This is a medium-large tern, with a long, slender orange bill, pale grey upperparts and white underparts.
Its legs are black.
In winter, the forehead becomes white.
The black of the crest that comes down from the crown extends through the eye, creating a small black \"smudge\" in front of the eye.

146
Forster's tern is a tern in the family Laridae.
It has pale grey upperparts and white underparts.
Its legs are red and its bill is red, tipped with black.
Forster's has a grey centre to its white tail, and the upperwings are pure white, without the darker primary wedge of the common tern.
Forster's tern is a medium-sized tern with a slender body, deeply forked long tail and relatively long legs.

147
The least tern is a small tern.
The upper parts are a fairly uniform pale gray, and the underparts white.
The head is white, with a black cap and line through the eye to the base of the bill, and a small white forehead patch above the bill;
in winter, the white forehead is more extensive, with a smaller and less sharply defined black cap.
The bill is yellow with a small black tip in summer, all blackish in winter.
The legs are yellowish.
The wings are mostly pale gray, but with conspicuous black markings on their outermost primaries.

148
The green-tailed towhee is the smallest towhee.
This bird can be recognized by the bright green stripes on the edge of its wings.
It has a distinct white throat and a rufous cap.

149
The brown thrasher is a bird in the family Mimidae.
the bird is relatively large-sized among the other thrashers.
It has brown upper parts with a white under part with dark streaks.
The brown thrasher is bright reddish-brown above with thin, dark streaks on its buffy underparts.
It has a whitish-colored chest with distinguished teardrop-shaped markings on its chest
Its long, rufous tail is rounded with paler corners, and eyes are a brilliant yellow.
Its bill is brownish, long, and curves downward. Both male and females are similar in appearance.

150
The sage thrasher is a medium-sized passerine bird.
Oreoscoptes montanus are pale grey-brown on the upperparts and white with dark streaks on the underparts.
They have a slim straight relatively short bill, yellow eyes and a long tail, although not as long as that of other thrashers.

151
The black-capped vireo is a small bird.
Sexually mature males are olive green above and white below with faint yellow flanks.
The crown and upper half of the head is black with a partial white eye ring and lores.
The iris is brownish-red and the bill is black.
Females are duller in color than males and have a slate-gray crown and underparts washed with greenish yellow.

152
The blue-headed vireo is characterized by its blue-grey head and bold yellow wing bars.
It can be characterized by its olive green upper body, two bold yellow wing bars down the edge of its wing, and a deep blue-grey crown from which it gets its name.
the Cassin's vireo can be differentiated by its lighter yellow patches, a smaller, thinner bill, and a brownish-grey crown.
the blue-headed vireo is a relatively small bird.

153
The Philadelphia vireo is a small North American songbird.
Adults are mainly olive-brown on the upperparts with yellow underparts.
they have dark eyes and a grey crown.
They have no wing bars and no eye ring.
There is a dark line through the eyes and a white stripe just over them.
They have thick blue-grey legs and a stout bill.
The Philadelphia vireo can be reliably distinguished by having much yellower underparts, and dark lores.

154
The red-eyed vireo is a small American songbird.
Adults are mainly olive-green on the upperparts with white underparts.
they have a red iris and a grey crown edged with black.
There is a dark blackish line through the eyes and a wide white stripe just above that line.
They have thick blue-grey legs and a stout bill.
They are yellowish on the flanks and undertail coverts.

155
The warbling vireo is a small North American songbird.
They are mainly olive-grey on the head and upperparts with white underparts.
they have brown eyes and the front of the face is light.
There is a white supercilium.
They have thick blue-grey legs and a stout bill.
Western birds are generally smaller and have darker grey crowns.

156
The white-eyed vireo is a small songbird.
Its head and back are a greyish olive, and the underparts are white with yellow flanks.
The wings and tail are dark, and there are two white wing bars on each wing.
The eyes have white irises, and are surrounded by yellow spectacles.

157
The yellow-throated vireo is a small American songbird.
Adults are mainly olive on the head and upperparts with a yellow throat and white belly.
they have dark eyes with yellow \"spectacles\".
The tail and wings are dark with white wing bars.
They have thick blue-grey legs and a stout bill.

158
The bay-breasted warbler is a small species of songbird in the New World warbler family.
Adult males in breeding plumage are primarily grayish above, with two white wing bars, dark streaks on the back, and a creamy neck patch.
The face is black, and the crown, throat, and sides are a dark chestnut color.
The two white wing bars are present in all plumages.

159
The black-and-white warbler is a species of New World warbler.
True to their name, black-and-white warblers are black and white in colour.
Both sexes have black and white crowns with a white eyebrow, black streaking on a white belly, black wings with two white wing bars, a black tail, a black-and-white streaked back, streaky undertail coverts, and grey-black legs and feet.
Breeding males have a black-and-white streaked throat and black cheek, while females have a grey cheek and a white-cream coloured throat and sides.

160
The black-throated blue warbler is a small passerine bird.
the adult male has a black face and cheeks, deep blue upperparts and white underparts, while the adult female is olive-brown above and light yellow below.
The adult male has white underparts with a black throat, face and flanks.
The upperparts are deep blue.
The female has olive-brown upperparts and light yellow underparts with darker wings and tail, gray crown and brown patches on the cheek.
Both sexes have a thin pointed bill and small white wing patches which are not always visible.
In the fall, the black-throated blue warbler can be distinguished by its small white wing patches.

161
The common name blue-winged warbler refers to the bluish-gray color of the wings that contrast with the bright yellow body of the male.
The breeding plumage of the male consists of a bright yellow head, breast and underparts.
There is no streaking of the underparts of the bird.
It has a narrow black line though the eyes and light blueish gray with two white wing-bars, which are diagnostic field marks.
The blue winged warblers are generally small in size with a well-proportioned body, and heavy pointed bill.
The female is duller overall with less yellow on the crown.
For males, the feathers are of bright yellow and olive green.
The males often have bluish-gray wings that come with white wing bars and a distinctive black eye lining.
Blue-Winged Warbler females exhibit a yellow plumage that looks a bit lighter in color.
The females also have a much less prominent eye lining which mostly looks grey and light.

162
The Canada warbler is a small boreal songbird.
the male's \"necklace\" is darker and more conspicuous and also has a longer tail.
The chest, throat and belly of the bird is yellow, and its back is dark grey.
It has no wingbars or tail spots, but the underside of the tail is white.
It has a yellow line in front of its eye in the direction of the beak, but the most striking facial feature is the white eyerings or \"spectacles.\"

163
The Cape May warbler is a small passerine and is a mid-sized New World warbler.
The adult male Cape May warbler has a brown back, yellowish rump and dark brown crown.
The underparts are yellow streaked with black, giving rise to the bird's scientific name.
The throat and nape are bright yellow and the face has a striking chestnut patch framed in yellow with a black eyestripe.
There is a narrow white wing bar.
he yellowish rump, and at least indications of the white wing bar, are always present.

164
The cerulean warbler is a small songbird.
Adult males have cerulean blue and white upperparts, with a black necklace across the breast and black streaks on the back and flanks.
Females and immature birds have bluish-green upperparts, a pale stripe over the eye, no streaking, and are yellow below.
All have two white wing bars and a thin, pointed bill.
Adult males are a deep, cerulean blue over the entire back, and are white below.
There are prominent dark streaks across the flanks.
Older individuals have stronger colors across the entire body, including brighter whites, darker streaking, and wider breast bands.
Adult females are yellow underneath, while the back and crown have a blue-green tint.
Females also possess a distinct pale supercilium, or eye stripe, just above the eye.

165
The chestnut-sided warbler is a moderately-sized New World warbler.
They display dark-streaked gray backs, white faces, black eyestripes and yellow crowns.
Their underparts are white, with chestnut flanks, and they also have two white wing bars.
The adult females resemble washed-out versions of the summer male, and in particular, the females lack the strong head pattern, and also have little to no chestnut coloring on their flanks.
Non-breeding birds of both sexes have bright yellow-green crowns, white eye-rings on a grey face, and unstreaked underparts.
Their wing bars are always present in their plumages.

166
The golden-winged warbler is a small warbler.
The male has black throat, black ear patch bordered in white, and a yellow crown and wing patch.
Females appear similar to males, with a light gray throat and light gray ear patches.
In both sexes, extensive white on the tail is conspicuous from below.
Underparts are grayish white and the bill is long and slender.

167
The hooded warbler is a small bird and mid-sized warbler.
It has a plain olive/green-brown back, and yellow underparts.
Their outer rectrices have whitish vanes.
Males have distinctive black hoods which surround their yellow faces;
the female has an olive-green cap which does not extend to the forehead, ears and throat instead.

168
The Kentucky warbler is a small species of New World warbler.
It is a sluggish and heavy warbler with a short tail, preferring to spend most of its time on or near the ground, except when singing.
Adult Kentucky warblers are mostly an olive-green in color on their back and nape, and a brilliant yellow below from their throat to their belly.
They have a small tinge of black on their crown, and a large black mask with a yellow pattern that runs from the beak and encircles the eyes, resembling a pair of spectacles.
Female Kentucky warblers have slightly less black on the sides of their head, and immature birds may have almost no black at all.

169
The magnolia warbler is a member of the wood warbler.
The breeding males often have white, gray, and black backs with yellow on the sides; yellow and black-striped stomachs;
white, gray, and black foreheads and beaks;
distinct black tails with white stripes on the underside; and defined white patches on their wings, called wing bars.
The yellow and black-striped stomachs help one to distinguish the males.

170
The mourning warbler is a small songbird of the New World warbler family.
Mourning warblers are small songbird with yellow underparts, olive-green upperparts, a thin pointed bill and pink legs.
Adult males have a gray hood, black lores and a black patch on the throat and breast.
Females and immatures are gray-brown on the head with an incomplete eye-ring.
They have a yellow-gray throat with a brown or olive tint to their breast.
Immature Connecticut warblers also have a whiter chest compared to the yellow chest on immature Mourning warblers.

171
The myrtle warbler is a small New World warbler.
The summer male myrtle warbler has a slate blue back, and yellow crown, rump and flank patch.
It has white tail patches, and the breast is streaked black.
The female has a similar pattern, but the back is brown as are the breast streaks.
The myrtle can be distinguished from Audubon's warbler by its whitish eyestripe, white (not yellow) throat, and contrasting cheek patch.

172
The Nashville warbler is a small songbird.
It has a gray head and a green back, and its underparts are yellow and white.
Both male and female Nashville warblers have a gray head fading into a greenish back and wings, a white belly and a yellow throat and breast.
They have a complete white eye ring, no wing bars, and a thin pointed black bill.
Adult males have a rusty brown patch on their crown, which is usually hard to see and often covered by gray feathers.
Males will raise it slightly when agitated.
Females and immature birds have a duller olive-grey head, and less bold yellow on their throat.

173
The orange-crowned warbler is a small songbird.
The orange-crowned warbler has olive-grey upperparts, yellowish underparts with faint streaking and a thin pointed bill.
It has a faint line over each eye and a faint broken eye ring.
The orange patch on the crown is usually not visible.
Females and immatures are duller in colour than males.
Western birds are yellower than eastern birds.

174
The palm warbler is a small songbird of the New World warbler family.

175
The pine warbler is a small songbird of the New World warbler family.
These birds have white bellies, two white wing bars, dark legs and thin, relatively long pointed bills; they have yellowish 'spectacles' around their eyes.
Adult males have olive upperparts and bright yellow throats and breasts;
females and immatures display upperparts which are olive-brown.
Their throats and breasts are paler.
The adult male pine warbler looks somewhat similar to the yellow-throated vireo which may cause some identification problems.

176
The prairie warbler is a small songbird of the New World warbler family.
These birds have yellow underparts with dark streaks on the flanks, and olive overparts with rusty streaks on the back;
they have a yellow line above the eye, a dark line through it, and a yellow spot below it.
These birds have black legs, long tails, two pale wing bars, and thin pointed bills. Coloring is duller in female and immatures.

177
The prothonotary warbler is a small songbird of the New World warbler family.
It has an olive-coloured back with blue-grey wings and tail, yellow underparts, a relatively long pointed bill, and black legs.
The adult male has a bright orange-yellow head.
Females and immature birds are duller and have a yellow head.
In flight from below, the short, wide tail has a distinctive two-toned pattern, white at the base and dark at the tip.

178
Swainson's warbler is a small species of New World warbler.
They are a plain olive-brown above and pale yellow-white below.
They have a whitish eyebrow stripe that runs above their eye, and the top of their head is a rusty brown.

179
The Tennessee warbler is a New World warbler.
The breeding male has olive back, shoulders, rump and vent.
The flight feathers are brownish-black.
It has a slate gray neck, crown and eyeline.
The underside is a gray-white.
The female is similar to the male, but is much duller and is tinged with yellow and olive overall, especially on the underside.
The Tennessee warbler has long wings, short tail and a thin, pointy bill.

180
Wilson's warbler is a small New World warbler.
It is greenish above and yellow below, with rounded wings and a long, slim tail.
The male has a black crown patch; depending on the subspecies, that mark is reduced or absent in the female.
The male has a small black cap.

181
The worm-eating warbler is a small New World warbler.
It is relatively plain with olive-brown upperparts and light-coloured underparts, but has black and light brown stripes on its head.
It has a slim pointed bill and pink legs. In immature birds, the head stripes are brownish.

182
The yellow warbler is a New World warbler species.
Winter, female and immature birds all have similarly greenish-yellow uppersides and are a duller yellow below.
In all, the remiges and rectrices are blackish olive with yellow edges, sometimes appearing as an indistinct wing-band on the former.
The eyes and the short thin beak are dark, while the feet are lighter or darker olive-buff.

183
The northern waterthrush is a large New World warbler.
On the head, the crown is brown with a white supercilium.
The bill is pointed and dark.
The throat is lightly streaked brown to black with heavier streaking continuing onto the breast and flanks.
The back is evenly brown.

184
The Louisiana waterthrush is a New World warbler.
Plain brown above, it is white below, with black streaks and with buff flanks and undertail, distinguishing it from the closely related northern waterthrush.
The Louisiana waterthrush has a plain brown back and white underparts streaked with black.
The flanks and undertail are buff.
There is a strong white flared supercilium, and the legs are bright pink.
The Louisiana waterthrush is the largest species of wood warbler.

185
The Bohemian waxwing is a starling-sized passerine bird.
It has mainly buff-grey plumage, black face markings and a pointed crest.
Its wings are patterned with white and bright yellow, and some feather tips have the red waxy appearance that give this species its English name.
It is short-tailed, mainly brownish-grey, and has a conspicuous crest on its head.
The male of the nominate subspecies has a black mask through the eye and a black throat.
There is a white streak behind the bill and a white curve below the eye.
The lower belly is a rich chestnut colour and there are cinnamon-coloured areas around the mask.
The rump is grey and the tail ends in a bright yellow band with a broad black border above it.
the flight feathers are black and the primaries have markings that produce a yellow stripe and white \"fishhooks\" on the closed wing.
The adult's secondaries end in long red appendages with the sealing wax appearance that gives the bird its English name.
The eyes are dark brown, the bill is mainly black, and the legs are dark grey or black.
In flight, the waxwing's large flocks, long wings and short tail give some resemblance to the common starling, and its flight is similarly fast and direct.

186
The cedar waxwing is a member of the family Bombycillidae or waxwing family of passerine birds.
It is a medium-sized, mostly brown, gray, and yellow.
This bird is named for its wax-like wing tips.
They are smaller and browner than their close relative, the Bohemian waxwing.
Their markings are a \"silky, shiny collection of brown, gray, and lemon-yellow, accented with a subdued crest, rakish black mask, and brilliant-red wax droplets on the wing feathers.\"
These droplets may be the same color as the madrone berries they are known to eat.
These birds' most prominent feature is this small cluster of red wax-like droplets on tips of secondary flight feathers on the wings.
The wings are \"broad and pointed, like a starling's.\"
The tail is typically yellow or orange depending on diet.
The tail is somewhat short, and square-tipped.
Adults have a pale yellow belly.
It has a short and wide bill.
The waxwing's black mask has a thin white border.

187
The American three-toed woodpecker is a medium-sized woodpecker.
Adults are black on the head, wings and rump, and white from the throat to the belly;
the flanks are white with black bars.
The back is white with black bars and the tail is black with the white outer feathers barred with black.
The adult male has a yellow cap

188
The pileated woodpecker is a large, mostly black woodpecker.
Pileated woodpeckers are mainly black with a red crest, and have a white line down the sides of the throat.
They show white on the wings in flight.

189
The red-bellied woodpecker is a medium-sized woodpecker
Though it has a vivid orange-red crown and nape it is not to be confused with the red-headed woodpecker.
The red-bellied earns its name from the pale reddish blush of its lower underside.
Adults are mainly light gray on the face and underparts;
they have black and white barred patterns on their back, wings and tail.
Adult males have a red cap going from the bill to the nape;
females have a red patch on the nape and another above the bill.
The reddish tinge on the belly that gives the bird its name is difficult to see in field identification.

190
The red-cockaded woodpecker is a woodpecker.
The red-cockaded woodpecker is small to mid-sized species.
Its back is barred with black and white horizontal stripes.
The red-cockaded woodpecker's most distinguishing feature is a black cap and nape that encircle large white cheek patches.
the male has a small red streak on each side of its black cap called a cockade, hence its name.

191
The red-headed woodpecker is a mid-sized woodpecker found in temperate North America.
Adults are distinctly tricolored, with a black back and tail, a white belly and rump, and a red head and neck.
The wings are black with white secondary remiges.
Adult males and females are identical in plumage. Juveniles have similar markings, but their heads are grey.
Red-headed woodpeckers are entirely crimson above their shoulders.

192
he downy woodpecker is a species of woodpecker, the smallest in North America.
The downy woodpecker is mainly black on the upperparts and wings, with a white back, throat and belly and white spotting on the wings.
There is one white bar above the eye, and one below.
They have a black tail with white outer feathers barred with black.
Adult males have a red patch on the back of the head whereas juvenile birds display a red cap.
Tt can be distinguished from the hairy by the presence of black spots on its white tail feathers and the length of its bill.

193
The Bewick's wren is a wren native to North America.
it has a long tail that is tipped in white.
Its plumage is brown on top and light grey underneath, with a white stripe above each eye.
Its beak is long, slender, and slightly curved.
Its most distinctive feature is its long tail with black bars and white corners.
Their beaks are usually shorter and stockier.

194
The cactus wren is a species of wren.
It is the state bird of Arizona, and the largest wren in the United States.
Its plumage is brown, with black and white spots as markings.
It has a distinctive white eyebrow that sweeps to the nape of the neck.
The chest is white, whereas the underparts are cinnamon-buff colored.
The tail, as well as flight feathers, are barred in black and white.
The cactus wren's coloration is brown with white speckles.
The crown is chocolate-brown with a light red tinge.
A distinctive white supercilium (eyebrow) runs from the bill to the nape of its neck, which is brown with white markings.
The chin is white, while the neck has black markings on a mostly white background.
Their chest is white with brown or black speckles, and the belly is generally white with some brown or black streaks.
The rump and back are gray to brown with white and black streaks.

195
The Carolina wren is a fairly large wren.
For T. l. ludovicianus, the crown is rich brown that appears more chestnut-colored on its rump and uppertail-coverts.
Shoulders and greater coverts are a rich brown, with a series of small white dots on the lesser primary coverts.
The rectrices are brown with 18 to 20 bars that span across the tail.
The white supercilious streak borders thinly with a black above and below, and extends above and beyond its shoulders
Its chin and throat are grey that becomes buff on its chest, flank and belly, though the latter two are of a warmer color
The underwing coverts sport a grayish buff color.

196
The house wren is a very small songbird of the wren family.
The subspecies vary greatly, with upperparts ranging from dull greyish-brown to rich rufescent-brown, and the underparts ranging from brown, over buff and pale grey, to pure white.
All subspecies have blackish barring to the wings and tail, and some also to the flanks.
All subspecies show a faint eye-ring and eyebrow and have a long, thin bill with a blackish upper mandible, and a black-tipped yellowish or pale grey lower mandible.
The legs are pinkish or grey. The short tail is typically held cocked.

197
The marsh wren is a small North American songbird of the wren family.
dults have brown upperparts with a light brown belly and flanks and a white throat and breast.
The back is black with white stripes.
They have a dark cap with a white line over the eyes and a short thin bill.

198
The rock wren is a small songbird of the wren family.
They have grey-brown upperparts with small black and white spots and pale grey underparts with a light brown rump.
Additional distinctive features include a light grey line over the eye, a long slightly decurved thin bill, a long barred tail and dark legs.

199
The winter wren is a very small North American bird and a member of the mainly New World wren family Troglodytidae.
Small tail is often cocked above its back, and short neck gives the appearance of a small brown ball.
Rufous brown above, grayer below, barred with darker brown and gray, even on wings and tail.
The bill is dark brown, the legs pale brown.
Young birds are less distinctly barred.
Most are identifiable by the pale \"eyebrows\" over their eyes.

200
The common yellowthroat is a New World warbler.
Common yellowthroats are small songbirds that have olive backs, wings and tails, yellow throats and chests, and white bellies.
Adult males have black face masks which stretch from the sides of the neck across the eyes and forehead, which are bordered above with white or gray.
Females are similar in appearance, but have paler underparts and lack the black mask.
Immature birds are similar in appearance to the adult female.
